MUST make makezapd AND ZAP ITSELF only accept .com files as files to
run. Otherwise the `get' mechanism may try to run a SUB file or
something, with nasty results.


Make it try writing sub to d:/c:/b:/a: in turn until it succeeds
(deleting any failed attempts at writing it as it goes). This will
need a new `subdrv' var, as the ccp only looks for $$$.sub on the
current drive. (But the sub-writing bit need only change the drive in
the FCB (to 4/3/2/1) each time. In fact, `subdrv' can just be an equ
for the sub FCB if it's done this way.)


Make extension `int' mean "run internal command". Test for this before
rejecting as not-a-com-file, of course. :-) You really might want to
run internals - sertest is an obvious choice, and there are probably
others.


It would also be nice if there were some way of running SUB files, but
I suspect this is basically impossible, so don't worry about it too
much. Do be sure to document the fact when I write the zap docs
though.


Have a nicer display to replace the "working..." thing.


Make zap.z an outline, it's too huge to make sense of without!


Check for card removal. (getch_time can check for it. If card removed,
offer to rescan or quit - don't allow rescan until new card is in. To
allow rescan will have to make sure everything can cope with being run
more than once.)


Show users with files in in italics (in the user number prompt bit).
That would be tough-ish, mind, so I may well not do it. (OTOH, could
do this during find_matching_files almost for free, I expect, in speed
terms at least.)


Make makezapd.com fit in 3k. Shouldn't be too hard. (Well, er,
actually it might be now I'm afraid. :-} Worth a shot though.)
